>>>RAW.glossary-cmmi

# CMMI Vocabulary

# This vocabulary uses acronyms from acronyms-cmmi.txt

######################################################################
# A
######################################################################

glossary:: acceptance criteria {CMMI} = The criteria that a product or
product component must satisfy to be accepted by a user, customer, or
other authorized entity [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: acceptance testing {CMMI} = Formal testing conducted to
enable a user, customer, or other authorized entity to determine
whether to accept a product or product component. (See also
[g:CMMI:unit testing].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: achievement profile {CMMI} = In the continuous
representation, a list of process areas and their corresponding
capability levels that represent the organization's progress for each
process area while advancing through the capability levels. (See also
[g:CMMI:capability level profile], [g:CMMI:target profile], and
[g:CMMI:target staging].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: acquisition {CMMI} = The process of obtaining products
(goods and services) through contract. [cite:cmmi] See also
[g:CMMI:acquisition strategy]

glossary:: acquisition strategy {CMMI} = The specific approach to
acquiring products and services that is based on considerations of
supply sources, acquisition methods, requirements specification types,
contract or agreement types, and the related acquisition risk
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: addition {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a clearly
marked model component that contains information of interest to
particular users. In a CMMI model, all additions bearing the same name
(e.g., the [acs:CMMI:IPPD] addition) may be optionally selected as a
group for use [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: adequate {CMMI} = This word is used so that you can
interpret goals and practices in light of your organization's business
objectives.  When using any CMMI model, you must interpret the
practices so that they work for your organization. This term is used
in goals and practices where certain activities may not be done all of
the time. (See also [g:CMMI:appropriate] and [g:CMMI:as needed].)

glossary:: allocated requirement {CMMI} = Requirement that levies all
or part of the performance and functionality of a higher level
requirement on a lower level architectural element or design component
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: alternative practice {CMMI} = A practice that is a
substitute for one or more generic or specific practices contained in
CMMI models that achieves an equivalent effect toward satisfying the
generic or specific goal associated with model practices. Alternative
practices are not necessarily one-for-one replacements for the generic
or specific practices [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: amplification {CMMI} = Amplifications are informative model
components that contain information relevant to a particular
discipline. For example, to find an amplification for software
engineering, you would look in the model for items labeled ``For
Software Engineering.'' The same is true for other disciplines
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: appraisal {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, an
examination of one or more processes by a trained team of
professionals using an appraisal reference model as the basis for
determining, at a minimum, strengths and weaknesses. (See also
[g:CMMI:assessment] and [g:CMMI:capability evaluation].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: appraisal findings {CMMI} = The results of an appraisal
that identify the most important issues, problems, or opportunities
for process improvement within the appraisal scope. Appraisal findings
are inferences drawn from corroborated objective evidence [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: appraisal participants {CMMI} = Members of the
organizational unit who participate in providing information during
the appraisal [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: appraisal rating {CMMI} = As used in CMMI appraisal
materials, the value assigned by an appraisal team to (a) a CMMI goal
or process area, (b) the capability level of a process area, or (c)
the maturity level of an organizational unit. The rating is determined
by enacting the defined rating process for the appraisal method being
employed [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: appraisal reference model {CMMI} = As used in CMMI
appraisal materials, the CMMI model to which an appraisal team
correlates implemented process activities [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: appraisal scope {CMMI} = The definition of the boundaries
of the appraisal encompassing the organizational limits and the CMMI
model limits within which the processes to be investigated operate
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: appropriate {CMMI} = This word is used so that you can
interpret goals and practices in light of your organization's business
objectives.  When using any CMMI model, you must interpret the
practices so that they work for your organization. This term is used
in goals and practices where certain activities may not be done all of
the time. (See also [g:CMMI:adequate] and [g:CMMI:as needed].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: as needed {CMMI} = This phrase is used so that you can
interpret goals and practices in light of your organization's business
objectives.  When using any CMMI model, you must interpret the
practices so that they work for your organization. This term is used
in goals and practices where certain activities may not be done all
the time. (See also [g:CMMI:adequate] and [g:CMMI:appropriate].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: assessment {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, an appraisal
that an organization does internally for the purposes of process
improvement.  The word assessment is also used in the CMMI Product
Suite in an everyday English sense (e.g., risk assessment).  (See also
[g:CMMI:appraisal] and [g:CMMI:capability evaluation].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: assignable cause of process variation {CMMI} = In CMMI, the
term special cause of process variation is used in place of assignable
cause of process variation to ensure consistency. The two terms are
defined identically. (See [g:CMMI:special cause of process
variation].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: audit {CMMI} = In CMMI process improvement work, an
objective examination of a work product or set of work products
against specific criteria (e.g., requirements) [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# B
######################################################################

glossary:: base measure {CMMI} = A distinct property or characteristic
of an entity and the method for quantifying it. (See also
[g:CMMI:derived measures].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: baseline {CMMI} = A set of specifications or work products
that has been formally reviewed and agreed on, which thereafter serves
as the basis for further development, and which can be changed only
through change control procedures. (See also [g:CMMI:configuration
baseline] and [g:CMMI:product baseline].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: bidirectional traceability {CMMI} = An association among
two or more logical entities that is discernible in either direction
(i.e., to and from an entity).  (See also [g:CMMI:requirements
traceability] and [g:CMMI:traceability].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: business objectives {CMMI} = Same as [g:CMMI:organization's
business objectives] [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# C
######################################################################

glossary:: CMMI Framework {CMMI} = The basic structure that organizes
CMMI components, including common elements of the current CMMI models
as well as rules and methods for generating models, appraisal methods
(including associated artifacts), and training materials. The
framework enables new disciplines to be added to CMMI so that the new
disciplines will integrate with the existing ones. (See also
[g:CMMI:CMMI model] and [g:CMMI:CMMI Product Suite].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: CMMI model {CMMI} = One from the entire collection of
possible models that can be generated from the CMMI Framework. Since
the CMMI Framework can generate different models based on the needs of
the organization using it, there are multiple CMMI models. (See also
[g:CMMI:CMMI Framework] and [g:CMMI:CMMI Product Suite].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: CMMI model component {CMMI} = Any of the main architectural
elements that compose a CMMI model. Some of the main elements of a
CMMI model include specific practices, generic practices, specific
goals, generic goals, process areas, capability levels, and maturity
levels [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: CMMI Product Suite {CMMI} = The complete set of products
developed around the CMMI concept. These products include the
framework itself, models, appraisal methods, appraisal materials, and
various types of training. (See also [g:CMMI:CMMI Framework] and
[g:CMMI:CMMI model].) [cite:cmmi]

###

glossary:: capability evaluation {CMMI} = An appraisal by a trained
team of professionals used as a discriminator to select suppliers, to
monitor suppliers against the contract, or to determine and enforce
incentives.  Evaluations are used to gain insight into the process
capability of a supplier organization and are intended to help
decision makers make better acquisition decisions, improve
subcontractor performance, and provide insight to a purchasing
organization. (See also [g:CMMI:appraisal] and [g:CMMI:assessment].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: capability level {CMMI} = Achievement of process
improvement within an individual process area. A capability level is
defined by the appropriate specific and generic practices for a
process area. (See also [g:CMMI:generic goal], [g:CMMI:generic
practice], [g:CMMI:maturity level], and [g:CMMI:process area].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: capability level profile {CMMI} = In the continuous
representation, a list of process areas and their corresponding
capability levels. (See also [g:CMMI:achievement profile],
[g:CMMI:target profile], and [g:CMMI:target staging].)  The profile
may be an achievement profile when it represents the organization's
progress for each process area while advancing through the capability
levels. Or, the profile may be a target profile when it represents an
objective for process improvement [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: capability maturity model {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:CMM]) A model
that contains the essential elements of effective processes for one or
more disciplines and describes an evolutionary improvement path from
ad hoc, immature processes to disciplined, mature processes with
improved quality and effectiveness [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: capability maturity model integration {CMMI} =
([acs:CMMI:CMMI]) a process improvement training and appraisal program
and service administered and marketed by Carnegie Mellon University
([acs:CMMI:CMU]) and required by many DoD and U.S. Government contracts,
especially in software development. CMU claims CMMI can be used to
guide process improvement across a project, division, or an entire
organization. CMMI defines the following maturity levels for
processes: Initial, Managed and Defined

glossary:: capable process {CMMI} = A process that can satisfy its
specified product quality, service quality, and process performance
objectives. (See also [g:CMMI:stable process], [g:CMMI:standard
process], and [g:CMMI:statistically managed process].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: causal analysis {CMMI} = The analysis of defects to
determine their cause [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: change management {CMMI} = Judicious use of means to effect
a change, or a proposed change, on a product or service. (See also
[g:CMMI:configuration management].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: commercial off the shelf {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:COTS]) Items
that can be purchased from a commercial vendor [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: common cause of process variation {CMMI} = The variation of
a process that exists because of normal and expected interactions
among the components of a process.  (See also [g:CMMI:special cause of
process variation].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: concept of operations {CMMI} = Same as [g:CMMI:operational
concept] [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration audit {CMMI} = An audit conducted to verify
that a configuration item, or a collection of configuration items that
make up a baseline, conforms to a specified standard or
requirement. (See also [g:CMMI:audit], [g:CMMI:configuration item],
[g:CMMI:functional configuration audit], and [g:CMMI:physical
configuration audit].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration baseline {CMMI} = The configuration
information formally designated at a specific time during a product's
or product component's life.  Configuration baselines, plus approved
changes from those baselines, constitute the current configuration
information.  (See also [g:CMMI:product lifecycle].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration control {CMMI} = An element of configuration
management consisting of the evaluation, coordination, approval or
disapproval, and implementation of changes to configuration items
after formal establishment of their configuration identification.
(See also [g:CMMI:configuration identification], [g:CMMI:configuration
item], and [g:CMMI:configuration management].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration control board {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:CCB]) A
group of people responsible for evaluating and approving or
disapproving proposed changes to configuration items, and for ensuring
implementation of approved changes. (See also [g:CMMI:configuration
item].)  Configuration control boards are also known as change control
boards [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration identification {CMMI} = An element of
configuration management consisting of selecting the configuration
items for a product, assigning unique identifiers to them, and
recording their functional and physical characteristics in technical
documentation. (See also [g:CMMI:configuration item],
[g:CMMI:configuration management], and [g:CMMI:product].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration management {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:CM]) A
discipline applying technical and administrative direction and
surveillance to (1) identify and document the functional and physical
characteristics of a configuration item, (2) control changes to those
characteristics, (3) record and report change processing and
implementation status, and (4) verify compliance with specified
requirements. (See also [g:CMMI:configuration audit],
[g:CMMI:configuration control], [g:CMMI:configuration identification],
and [g:CMMI:configuration status accounting].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration item {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:CI]) An aggregation
of work products that is designated for configuration management and
treated as a single entity in the configuration management
process. (See also [g:CMMI:configuration management].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: configuration status accounting {CMMI} = An element of
configuration management consisting of the recording and reporting of
information needed to manage a configuration effectively. This
information includes a listing of the approved configuration
identification, the status of proposed changes to the configuration,
and the implementation status of approved changes. (See also
[g:CMMI:configuration identification] and [g:CMMI:configuration
management].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: continuous representation {CMMI} = A capability maturity
model structure wherein capability levels provide a recommended order
for approaching process improvement within each specified process
area.  (See also [g:CMMI:capability level], [g:CMMI:process area], and
[g:CMMI:staged representation].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: contractor {CMMI} = Same as [g:CMMI:supplier] [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: corrective action {CMMI} = Acts or deeds used to remedy a
situation, remove an error, or adjust a condition [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: customer {CMMI} = The party (individual, project, or
organization) responsible for accepting the product or for authorizing
payment. The customer is external to the project (except possibly when
integrated teams are used, as in [acs:CMMI:IPPD]), but not necessarily
external to the organization. The customer may be a higher level
project. Customers are a subset of stakeholders. (See also
[g:CMMI:stakeholder].)  In most cases where this term is used, the
preceding definition is intended; however, in some contexts, the term
``customer'' is intended to include other relevant stakeholders. (See
also [g:CMMI:customer requirement].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: customer requirement {CMMI} = The result of eliciting,
consolidating, and resolving conflicts among the needs, expectations,
constraints, and interfaces of the product's relevant stakeholders in
a way that is acceptable to the customer. (See also
[g:CMMI:customer].) [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# D
######################################################################

glossary:: data {CMMI} = Recorded information, regardless of the form
or method of recording, including technical data, computer software
documents, financial information, management information,
representation of facts, numbers, or datum of any nature that can be
communicated, stored, and processed [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: data management {CMMI} = The disciplined processes and
systems that plan for, acquire, and provide stewardship for business
and technical data, consistent with data requirements, throughout the
data lifecycle [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: defect density {CMMI} = Number of defects per unit of
product size (e.g., problem reports per thousand lines of code)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: defined {CMMI} = At maturity level 3, processes are well
characterized and understood, and are described in standards,
procedures, tools, and methods. The organization's set of standard
processes, which is the basis for maturity level 3, is established and
improved over time. These standard processes are used to establish
consistency across the organization. Projects establish their defined
processes by tailoring the organization's set of standard processes
according to tailoring guidelines. (See the glossary for a definition
of ``organization's set of standard processes.'') [cite:cmmi, pg 37]

glossary:: defined {CMMI-2} = A capability level 3 process is
characterized as a ``defined process.'' A defined process is a managed
(capability level 2) process that is tailored from the organization's
set of standard processes according to the organization's tailoring
guidelines, and contributes work products, measures, and other process
improvement information to the organizational process
assets. [cite:cmmi, pg 33]

glossary:: defined process {CMMI} = A managed process that is tailored
from the organization's set of standard processes according to the
organization's tailoring guidelines; has a maintained process
description; and contributes work products, measures, and other
process improvement information to the organizational process
assets. (See also [g:CMMI:managed process].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: derived measures {CMMI} = Data resulting from the
mathematical function of two or more base measures. (See also
[g:CMMI:base measure].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: derived requirements {CMMI} = Requirements that are not
explicitly stated in the customer requirements, but are inferred (1)
from contextual requirements (e.g., applicable standards, laws,
policies, common practices, and management decisions), or (2) from
requirements needed to specify a product component.  Derived
requirements can also arise during analysis and design of components
of the product or system. (See also [g:CMMI:product requirements].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: design review {CMMI} = A formal, documented, comprehensive,
and systematic examination of a design to evaluate the design
requirements and the capability of the design to meet these
requirements, and to identify problems and propose solutions
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: development {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, not only
development activities but also maintenance activities may be
included. Projects that benefit from the best practices of CMMI can
focus on development, maintenance, or both [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: developmental plan {CMMI} = A plan for guiding,
implementing, and controlling the design and development of one or
more products. (See also [g:CMMI:product lifecycle] and
[g:CMMI:project plan].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: discipline {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, the bodies
of knowledge available to you when selecting a CMMI model (e.g.,
systems engineering). The CMMI Product Team envisions that other
bodies of knowledge will be integrated into the CMMI Framework in the
future [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: document {CMMI} = A collection of data, regardless of the
medium on which it is recorded, that generally has permanence and can
be read by humans or machines. So, documents include both paper and
electronic documents [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# E
######################################################################

glossary:: enterprise {CMMI} = The full composition of
companies. Companies may consist of many organizations in many
locations with different customers. (See also [g:CMMI:organization].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: entry criteria {CMMI} = States of being that must be
present before an effort can begin successfully [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: equivalent staging {CMMI} = A target staging, created using
the continuous representation, which is defined so that the results of
using the target staging can be compared to the maturity levels of the
staged representation. (See also [g:CMMI:capability level profile],
[g:CMMI:maturity level], [g:CMMI:target profile], and [g:CMMI:target
staging].)  Such staging permits benchmarking of progress among
organizations, enterprises, and projects, regardless of the CMMI
representation used. The organization may implement components of CMMI
models beyond those reported as part of equivalent staging. Equivalent
staging is only a measure to relate how the organization is compared
to other organizations in terms of maturity levels [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: establish and maintain {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite,
you will encounter goals and practices that include the phrase
``establish and maintain.''  This phrase means more than a combination
of its component terms; it includes documentation and usage. For
example, ``Establish and maintain an organizational policy for
planning and performing the organizational process focus process''
means that not only must a policy be formulated, but it also must be
documented, and it must be used throughout the organization
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: evidence {CMMI} = Same as [g:CMMI:objective evidence]
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: executive {CMMI} = Same as [g:CMMI:senior manager]
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: exit criteria {CMMI} = States of being that must be present
before an effort can end successfully [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: expected CMMI components {CMMI} = CMMI components that
explain what may be done to satisfy a required CMMI component. Model
users can implement the expected components explicitly or implement
equivalent alternative practices to these components. Specific and
generic practices are expected model components [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# F
######################################################################

glossary:: finding {CMMI} = See [g:CMMI:appraisal findings]
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: formal evaluation process {CMMI} = A structured approach to
evaluating alternative solutions against established criteria to
determine a recommended solution to address an issue [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: framework {CMMI} = See [g:CMMI:CMMI Framework] [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: functional analysis {CMMI} = Examination of a defined
function to identify all the subfunctions necessary to the
accomplishment of that function; identification of functional
relationships and interfaces (internal and external) and capturing
these in a functional architecture; and flow down of upper level
performance requirements and assignment of these requirements to lower
level subfunctions. (See also [g:CMMI:functional architecture].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: functional architecture {CMMI} = The hierarchical
arrangement of functions, their internal and external (external to the
aggregation itself) functional interfaces and external physical
interfaces, their respective functional and performance requirements,
and their design constraints [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: functional configuration audit {CMMI} = An audit conducted
to verify that the development of a configuration item has been
completed satisfactorily, that the item has achieved the performance
and functional characteristics specified in the functional or
allocated configuration identification, and that its operational and
support documents are complete and satisfactory. (See also
[g:CMMI:configuration audit], [g:CMMI:configuration management], and
[g:CMMI:physical configuration audit].)  [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# G
######################################################################

glossary:: generic goal {CMMI} = A required model component that
describes the characteristics that must be present to institutionalize
the processes that implement a process area. (See also
[g:CMMI:institutionalization].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: generic practice {CMMI} = An expected model component that
is considered important in achieving the associated generic goal. The
generic practices associated with a generic goal describe the
activities that are expected to result in achievement of the generic
goal and contribute to the institutionalization of the processes
associated with a process area [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: generic practice elaboration {CMMI} = An informative model
component that appears after a generic practice to provide guidance on
how the generic practice should be applied to the process area
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: goal {CMMI} = A required CMMI component that can be either
a generic goal or a specific goal. When you see the word goal in a
CMMI model, it always refers to a model component (e.g., generic goal
and specific goal). (See also [g:CMMI:generic goal],
[g:CMMI:objective], and [g:CMMI:specific goal].) [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# H
######################################################################

glossary:: hardware engineering {CMMI} = The application of a
systematic, disciplined, and quantifiable approach to transform a set
of requirements representing the collection of stakeholder needs,
expectations, and constraints using documented techniques and
technology to design, implement, and maintain a tangible product. (See
also [g:CMMI:software engineering] and [g:CMMI:systems engineering].)
In CMMI, hardware engineering represents all technical fields (e.g.,
electrical or mechanical) that transform requirements and ideas into
tangible and producible products [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: higher level management {CMMI} = The person or persons who
provide the policy and overall guidance for the process, but do not
provide the direct day-to-day monitoring and controlling of the
process. Such persons belong to a level of management in the
organization above the immediate level responsible for the process and
can be (but are not necessarily) senior managers. (See also
[g:CMMI:senior manager].) [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# I
######################################################################

glossary:: incomplete {CMMI} = An ``incomplete process'' is a process
that either is not performed or partially performed. One or more of
the specific goals of the process area are not satisfied, and no
generic goals exist for this level since there is no reason to
institutionalize a partially performed process. [cite:cmmi,pg 33]

glossary:: incomplete process {CMMI} = A process that is not performed
or is performed only partially (also known as capability level 0). One
or more of the specific goals of the process area are not satisfied
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: informative CMMI components {CMMI} = CMMI components that
help model users understand the required and expected components of a
model. These components can contain examples, detailed explanations,
or other helpful information. Subpractices, notes, references, goal
titles, practice titles, sources, typical work products,
amplifications, and generic practice elaborations are informative
model components [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: initial {CMMI} = At maturity level 1, processes are usually
ad hoc and chaotic. The organization usually does not provide a stable
environment to support the processes. Success in these organizations
depends on the competence and heroics of the people in the
organization and not on the use of proven processes. In spite of this
chaos, maturity level 1 organizations often produce products and
services that work; however, they frequently exceed their budgets and
do not meet their schedules.  Maturity level 1 organizations are
characterized by a tendency to over commit, abandon processes in the
time of crisis, and not be able to repeat their past successes
again. [cite:cmmi, pg 36]

glossary:: institutionalization {CMMI} = The ingrained way of doing
business that an organization follows routinely as part of its
corporate culture [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: integrated product and process development {CMMI} =
([acs:CMMI:IPPD]) A systematic approach to product development that
achieves a timely collaboration of relevant stakeholders throughout
the product lifecycle to better satisfy customer needs [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: integrated team {CMMI} = A group of people with
complementary skills and expertise who are committed to delivering
specified work products in timely collaboration. Integrated team
members provide skills and advocacy appropriate to all phases of the
work products' life and are collectively responsible for delivering
the work products as specified. An integrated team should include
empowered representatives from organizations, disciplines, and
functions that have a stake in the success of the work products
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: interface control {CMMI} = In configuration management, the
process of (1) identifying all functional and physical characteristics
relevant to the interfacing of two or more configuration items
provided by one or more organizations, and (2) ensuring that the
proposed changes to these characteristics are evaluated and approved
prior to implementation. (See also [g:CMMI:configuration item] and
[g:CMMI:configuration management].)  [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# L
######################################################################

glossary:: lifecycle model {CMMI} = A partitioning of the life of a
product or project into phases [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# M
######################################################################

glossary:: managed {CMMI} = At maturity level 2, the projects of the
organization have ensured that processes are planned and executed in
accordance with policy; the projects employ skilled people who have
adequate resources to produce controlled outputs; involve relevant
stakeholders; are monitored, controlled, and reviewed; and are
evaluated for adherence to their process descriptions. The process
discipline reflected by maturity level 2 helps to ensure that existing
practices are retained during times of stress. When these practices
are in place, projects are performed and managed according to their
documented plans.  At maturity level 2, the status of the work
products and the delivery of services are visible to management at
defined points (e.g., at major milestones and at the completion of
major tasks). Commitments are established among relevant stakeholders
and are revised as needed. Work products are appropriately
controlled. The work products and services satisfy their specified
process descriptions, standards, and procedures. [cite:cmmi, pg 36]

glossary:: managed {CMMI-2} = A capability level 2 process is
characterized as a ``managed process.'' A managed process is a
performed (capability level 1) process that has the basic
infrastructure in place to support the process. It is planned and
executed in accordance with policy; employs skilled people who have
adequate resources to produce controlled outputs; involves relevant
stakeholders; is monitored, controlled, and reviewed; and is evaluated
for adherence to its process description. The process discipline
reflected by capability level 2 helps to ensure that existing
practices are retained during times of stress. [cite:cmmi, pg 33]

glossary:: managed process {CMMI} = A performed process that is
planned and executed in accordance with policy; employs skilled people
having adequate resources to produce controlled outputs; involves
relevant stakeholders; is monitored, controlled, and reviewed; and is
evaluated for adherence to its process description. (See also
[g:CMMI:performed process].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: manager {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a person who
provides technical and administrative direction and control to those
performing tasks or activities within the manager's area of
responsibility.  The traditional functions of a manager include
planning, organizing, directing, and controlling work within an area
of responsibility [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: maturity level {CMMI} = Degree of process improvement
across a predefined set of process areas in which all goals in the set
are attained. (See also [g:CMMI:capability level] and [g:CMMI:process
area].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: memorandum of agreement {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:MOA]) Binding
documents of understanding or agreements between two or more
parties. Also known as a ``memorandum of understanding'' [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# N
######################################################################

glossary:: natural bounds {CMMI} = The inherent process reflected by
measures of process performance, sometimes referred to as ``voice of
the process.'' Techniques such as control charts, confidence
intervals, and prediction intervals are used to determine whether the
variation is due to common causes (i.e., the process is predictable or
``stable'') or is due to some special cause that can and should be
identified and removed [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: nondevelopmental item {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:NDI]) An item of
supply that was developed prior to its current use in an acquisition
or development process. Such an item may require minor modifications
to meet the requirements of its current intended use [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: nontechnical requirements {CMMI} = Contractual provisions,
commitments, conditions, and terms that affect how products or
services are to be acquired.  Examples include products to be
delivered, data rights for delivered commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)
nondevelopmental items (NDIs), delivery dates, and milestones with
exit criteria. Other nontechnical requirements include training
requirements, site requirements, and deployment schedules [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# O
######################################################################

glossary:: objective {CMMI} = When used as a noun in the CMMI Product
Suite, the term objective replaces the word goal as used in its common
everyday sense since the word goal is reserved for use when referring
to the CMMI model components called specific goals and generic
goals. (See also [g:CMMI:goal].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: objective evidence {CMMI} = As used in CMMI appraisal
materials, documents or interview results used as indicators of the
implementation or institutionalization of model practices. Sources of
objective evidence can include instruments, presentations, documents,
and interviews [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: objectively evaluate {CMMI} = To review activities and work
products against criteria which minimize subjectivity and bias by the
reviewer. An example of an objective evaluation is an audit against
requirements, standards, or procedures by an independent quality
assurance function. (See also [g:CMMI:audit].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: observation {CMMI} = As used in CMMI appraisal materials, a
written record that represents the appraisal team members'
understanding of information either seen or heard during the appraisal
data collection activities. The written record may take the form of a
statement or may take alternative forms as long as the information
content is preserved [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: operational concept {CMMI} = A general description of the
way in which an entity is used or operates. (Also known as
[g:CMMI:concept of operations].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: operational scenario {CMMI} = A description of an imagined
sequence of events that includes the interaction of the product with
its environment and users, as well as interaction among its product
components. Operational scenarios are used to evaluate the
requirements and design of the system and to verify and validate the
system [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: optimizing {CMMI} = At maturity level 5, an organization
continually improves its processes based on a quantitative
understanding of the common causes of variation inherent in
processes. (See the definition of ``common cause of process
variation'' in the glossary.) [cite:cmmi, pg 38]

glossary:: optimizing {CMMI-2} = A capability level 5 process is
characterized as an ``optimizing process.'' An optimizing process is a
quantitatively managed (capability level 4) process that is improved
based on an understanding of the common causes of variation inherent
in the process. The focus of an optimizing process is on continually
improving the range of process performance through both incremental
and innovative improvements. [cite:cmmi, pg 34]

glossary:: optimizing process {CMMI} = A quantitatively managed
process that is improved based on an understanding of the common
causes of variation inherent in the process. The focus of an
optimizing process is on continually improving the range of process
performance through both incremental and innovative improvements. (See
also [g:CMMI:common cause of process variation], [g:CMMI:defined
process], and [g:CMMI:quantitatively managed process].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organization {CMMI} = An administrative structure in which
people collectively manage one or more projects as a whole, and whose
projects share a senior manager and operate under the same
policies. However, the word organization as used throughout CMMI
models can also apply to one person who performs a function in a small
organization that might be performed by a group of people in a large
organization. (See also [g:CMMI:enterprise] and [g:CMMI:organizational
unit].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organizational maturity {CMMI} = The extent to which an
organization has explicitly and consistently deployed processes that
are documented, managed, measured, controlled, and continually
improved.  Organizational maturity may be measured via appraisals
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organizational policy {CMMI} = A guiding principle
typically established by senior management that is adopted by an
organization to influence and determine decisions [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organizational process assets {CMMI} = Artifacts that
relate to describing, implementing, and improving processes (e.g.,
policies, measurements, process descriptions, and process
implementation support tools).  The term process assets is used to
indicate that these artifacts are developed or acquired to meet the
business objectives of the organization, and they represent
investments by the organization that are expected to provide current
and future business value. (See also [g:CMMI:process asset library].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organizational unit {CMMI} = The part of an organization
that is the subject of an appraisal. An organizational unit deploys
one or more processes that have a coherent process context and
operates within a coherent set of business objectives. An
organizational unit is typically part of a larger organization,
although in a small organization, the organizational unit may be the
whole organization [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organization's business objectives {CMMI} = Senior
management developed strategies designed to ensure an organization's
continued existence and enhance its profitability, market share, and
other factors influencing the organization's success. (See also
[g:CMMI:quality and process performance objectives] and
[g:CMMI:quantitative objective].)  Such objectives may include
reducing the number of change requests during a system's integration
phase, reducing development cycle time, increasing the number of
errors found in a product's first or second phase of development, and
reducing the number of customer-reported defects, when applied to
systems engineering activities [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organization's measurement repository {CMMI} = A repository
used to collect and make available measurement data on processes and
work products, particularly as they relate to the organization's set
of standard processes. This repository contains or references actual
measurement data and related information needed to understand and
analyze the measurement data [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organization's process asset library {CMMI} = A library of
information used to store and make available process assets that are
useful to those who are defining, implementing, and managing processes
in the organization.  This library contains process assets that
include process related documentation such as policies, defined
processes, checklists, lessons-learned documents, templates,
standards, procedures, plans, and training materials [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: organization's set of standard processes {CMMI} = A
collection of definitions of the processes that guide activities in an
organization. These process descriptions cover the fundamental process
elements (and their relationships to each other, such as ordering and
interfaces) that must be incorporated into the defined processes that
are implemented in projects across the organization. A standard
process enables consistent development and maintenance activities
across the organization and is essential for long-term stability and
improvement. (See also [g:CMMI:defined process] and [g:CMMI:process
element].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: outsourcing {CMMI} = See [g:CMMI:acquisition] [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# P
######################################################################

glossary:: peer review {CMMI} = The review of work products performed
by peers during development of the work products to identify defects
for removal. The term peer review is used in the CMMI Product Suite
instead of the term work product inspection. (See also [g:CMMI:work
product].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: performance parameters {CMMI} = The measures of
effectiveness and other key measures used to guide and control
progressive development [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: performed {CMMI} = A capability level 1 process is
characterized as a ``performed process.'' A performed process is a
process that satisfies the specific goals of the process area. It
supports and enables the work needed to produce work products.
Although capability level 1 results in important improvements, those
improvements can be lost over time if they are not
institutionalized. The application of institutionalization (the CMMI
generic practices at capability levels 2 through 5) helps to ensure
that improvements are maintained. [cite:cmmi, pg 33]

glossary:: performed process {CMMI} = A process that accomplishes the
needed work to produce work products. The specific goals of the
process area are satisfied [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: physical configuration audit {CMMI} = An audit conducted to
verify that a configuration item, as built, conforms to the technical
documentation that defines and describes it. (See also,
[g:CMMI:configuration audit], [g:CMMI:configuration management], and
[g:CMMI:functional configuration audit].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: planned process {CMMI} = A process that is documented by
both a description and a plan. The description and plan should be
coordinated, and the plan should include standards, requirements,
objectives, resources, assignments, and so on [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: policy {CMMI} = See [g:CMMI:organizational policy]
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, activities that
can be recognized as implementations of practices in a CMMI
model. These activities can be mapped to one or more practices in CMMI
process areas to allow a model to be useful for process improvement
and process appraisal. (See also [g:CMMI:process area],
[g:CMMI:subprocess], and [g:CMMI:process element].)  There is a
special use of the phrase ``the process'' in the statements and
descriptions of the generic goals and generic practices. ``The
process,'' as used in Part Two, is the process or processes that
implement the process area [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process action plan {CMMI} = A plan, usually resulting from
appraisals, that documents how specific improvements targeting the
weaknesses uncovered by an appraisal will be implemented [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process action team {CMMI} = A team that has the
responsibility to develop and implement process improvement activities
for an organization as documented in a process action plan [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process and technology improvements {CMMI} = Incremental
and innovative improvements to processes and to process or product
technologies [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process architecture {CMMI} = The ordering, interfaces,
interdependencies, and other relationships among the process elements
in a standard process. Process architecture also describes the
interfaces, interdependencies, and other relationships between process
elements and external processes (e.g., contract management)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process area {CMMI} = A cluster of related practices in an
area that, when implemented collectively, satisfy a set of goals
considered important for making improvement in that area. All CMMI
process areas are common to both continuous and staged representations
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process asset {CMMI} = Anything that the organization
considers useful in attaining the goals of a process area. (See also
[g:CMMI:organizational process assets].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process asset library {CMMI} = A collection of process
asset holdings that can be used by an organization or project. (See
also [g:CMMI:organization's process asset library].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process attribute {CMMI} = A measurable characteristic of
process capability applicable to any process [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process capability {CMMI} = The range of expected results
that can be achieved by following a process [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process definition {CMMI} = The act of defining and
describing a process. The result of a process definition is a process
description. (See also [g:CMMI:process description].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process description {CMMI} = A documented expression of a
set of activities performed to achieve a given purpose.  A process
description provides an operational definition of the major components
of a process. The description specifies, in a complete, precise, and
verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other
characteristics of a process. It also may include procedures for
determining whether these provisions have been satisfied. Process
descriptions can be found at the activity, project, or organizational
level [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process element {CMMI} = The fundamental unit of a
process. A process can be defined in terms of subprocesses or process
elements. A subprocess can be further decomposed into subprocesses or
process elements; a process element cannot. (See also [g:CMMI:process]
and [g:CMMI:subprocess].)  Each process element covers a closely
related set of activities (e.g., estimating element and peer review
element). Process elements can be portrayed using templates to be
completed, abstractions to be refined, or descriptions to be modified
or used. A process element can be an activity or task [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process group {CMMI} = A collection of specialists who
facilitate the definition, maintenance, and improvement of the
processes used by the organization [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process improvement {CMMI} = A program of activities
designed to improve the performance and maturity of the organization's
processes and the results of such a program [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process improvement objectives {CMMI} = A set of target
characteristics established to guide the effort to improve an existing
process in a specific, measurable way either in terms of resultant
product characteristics (e.g., quality, performance, and conformance
to standards) or in the way in which the process is executed (e.g.,
elimination of redundant process steps, combination of process steps,
and improvement of cycle time). (See also [g:CMMI:organization's
business objectives] and [g:CMMI:quantitative objective].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process improvement plan {CMMI} = A plan for achieving
organizational process improvement objectives based on a thorough
understanding of the current strengths and weaknesses of the
organization's processes and process assets [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process measurement {CMMI} = The set of definitions,
methods, and activities used to take measurements of a process and its
resulting products for the purpose of characterizing and understanding
the process [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process owner {CMMI} = The person (or team) responsible for
defining and maintaining a process. At the organizational level, the
process owner is the person (or team) responsible for the description
of a standard process; at the project level, the process owner is the
person (or team) responsible for the description of the defined
process. A process may therefore have multiple owners at different
levels of responsibility.  (See also [g:CMMI:defined process] and
[g:CMMI:standard process].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process performance {CMMI} = A measure of actual results
achieved by following a process.  It is characterized by both process
measures (e.g., effort, cycle time, and defect removal efficiency) and
product measures (e.g., reliability, defect density, and response
time) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process-performance baseline {CMMI} = A documented
characterization of the actual results achieved by following a
process, which is used as a benchmark for comparing actual process
performance against expected process performance. (See also
[g:CMMI:process performance].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process-performance model {CMMI} = A description of the
relationships among attributes of a process and its work products that
is developed from historical process-performance data and calibrated
using collected process and product measures from the project and that
is used to predict results to be achieved by following a process
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: process tailoring {CMMI} = Making, altering, or adapting a
process description for a particular end. For example, a project
tailors its defined process from the organization's set of standard
processes to meet the objectives, constraints, and environment of the
project. (See also [g:CMMI:defined process], [g:CMMI:organization's
set of standard processes], and [g:CMMI:process description].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a work product
that is intended for delivery to a customer or end user. The form of a
product can vary in different contexts. (See also [g:CMMI:customer],
[g:CMMI:product component], [g:CMMI:service], and [g:CMMI:work
product].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product baseline {CMMI} = In configuration management, the
initial approved technical data package (including, for software, the
source code listing) defining a configuration item during the
production, operation, maintenance, and logistic support of its
lifecycle.  (See also [g:CMMI:configuration item] and
[g:CMMI:configuration management].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product component {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a
work product that is a lower level component of the product. Product
components are integrated to produce the product. There may be
multiple levels of product components. (See also [g:CMMI:product] and
[g:CMMI:work product].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product component requirements {CMMI} = A complete
specification of a product component, including fit, form, function,
performance, and any other requirement [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product lifecycle {CMMI} = The period of time, consisting
of phases, which begins when a product is conceived and ends when the
product is no longer available for use. Since an organization may be
producing multiple products for multiple customers, one description of
a product lifecycle may not be adequate.  Therefore, the organization
may define a set of approved product lifecycle models. These models
are typically found in published literature and are likely to be
tailored for use in an organization.  A product lifecycle could
consist of the following phases: (1) concept/vision, (2) feasibility,
(3) design/development, (4) production, and (5) phase out [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product line {CMMI} = A group of products sharing a common,
managed set of features that satisfy specific needs of a selected
market or mission [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product-related lifecycle processes {CMMI} = Processes
associated with a product throughout one or more phases of its life
(e.g., from conception through disposal), such as the manufacturing
and support processes [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product requirements {CMMI} = A refinement of the customer
requirements into the developers' language, making implicit
requirements into explicit derived requirements. (See also
[g:CMMI:derived requirements] and [g:CMMI:product component
requirements].)  The developer uses the product requirements to guide
the design and building of the product [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: product suite {CMMI} = See [g:CMMI:CMMI Product Suite]
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: profile {CMMI} = See [g:CMMI:achievement profile] and
[g:CMMI:target profile]

glossary:: program {CMMI} = (1) A project. (2) A collection of related
projects and the infrastructure that supports them, including
objectives, methods, activities, plans, and success measures. (See
also [g:CMMI:project].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: project {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a managed set
of interrelated resources which delivers one or more products to a
customer or end user. A project has a definite beginning (i.e.,
project startup) and typically operates according to a plan. Such a
plan is frequently documented and specifies what is to be delivered or
implemented, the resources and funds to be used, the work to be done,
and a schedule for doing the work. A project can be composed of
projects. (See also [g:CMMI:project startup].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: project manager {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, the
person responsible for planning, directing, controlling, structuring,
and motivating the project. The project manager is responsible for
satisfying the customer. [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: project plan {CMMI} = A plan that provides the basis for
performing and controlling the project's activities, which addresses
the commitments to the project's customer.  Project planning includes
estimating the attributes of the work products and tasks, determining
the resources needed, negotiating commitments, producing a schedule,
and identifying and analyzing project risks. Iterating through these
activities may be necessary to establish the project plan [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: project progress and performance {CMMI} = What a project
achieves with respect to implementing project plans, including effort,
cost, schedule, and technical performance [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: project startup {CMMI} = When a set of interrelated
resources are directed to develop or deliver one or more products for
a customer or end user.  (See also [g:CMMI:project].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: project's defined process {CMMI} = The integrated and
defined process that is tailored from the organization's set of
standard processes. (See also [g:CMMI:defined process].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: prototype {CMMI} = A preliminary type, form, or instance of
a product or product component that serves as a model for later stages
or for the final, complete version of the product. This model (e.g.,
physical, electronic, digital, and analytical) can be used for the
following (and other) purposes: (1) Assessing the feasibility of a new
or unfamiliar technology (2) Assessing or mitigating technical risk
(3) Validating requirements (4) Demonstrating critical features (5)
Qualifying a product (6) Qualifying a process (7) Characterizing
performance or product features (8) Elucidating physical principles
[cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# Q
######################################################################

glossary:: quality {CMMI} = The ability of a set of inherent
characteristics of a product, product component, or process to fulfill
requirements of customers [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: quality and process performance objectives {CMMI} =
Objectives and requirements for product quality, service quality, and
process performance. Process-performance objectives include quality;
however, to emphasize the importance of quality in the CMMI Product
Suite, the phrase quality and process-performance objectives is used
rather than just process-performance objectives [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: quality assurance {CMMI} = A planned and systematic means
for assuring management that the defined standards, practices,
procedures, and methods of the process are applied [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: quality control {CMMI} = The operational techniques and
activities that are used to fulfill requirements for quality. (See
also [g:CMMI:quality assurance].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: quantitative objective {CMMI} = Desired target value
expressed as quantitative measures.  (See also [g:CMMI:process
improvement objectives] and [g:CMMI:quality and process performance
objectives].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: quantitatively managed {CMMI} = At maturity level 4, the
organization and projects establish quantitative objectives for
quality and process performance and use them as criteria in managing
processes. Quantitative objectives are based on the needs of the
customer, end users, organization, and process implementers. Quality
and process performance is understood in statistical terms and is
managed throughout the life of the processes (SEI 2001). [cite:cmmi,
pg 37]

glossary:: quantitatively managed {CMMI-2} = A capability level 4
process is characterized as a ``quantitatively managed process.'' A
quantitatively managed process is a defined (capability level 3)
process that is controlled using statistical and other quantitative
techniques. Quantitative objectives for quality and process
performance are established and used as criteria in managing the
process. Quality and process performance is understood in statistical
terms and is managed throughout the life of the process. [cite:cmmi,
pg 34]

glossary:: quantitatively managed process {CMMI} = A defined process
that is controlled using statistical and other quantitative
techniques. The product quality, service quality, and
process-performance attributes are measurable and controlled
throughout the project. (See also [g:CMMI:defined process],
[g:CMMI:optimizing process], and [g:CMMI:statistically managed
process].)  [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# R
######################################################################

glossary:: rating {CMMI} = See [g:CMMI:appraisal rating] [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: reference {CMMI} = An informative model component that
points to additional or more detailed information in related process
areas [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: reference model {CMMI} = A model that is used as a
benchmark for measuring some attribute [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: relevant stakeholder {CMMI} = A stakeholder that is
identified for involvement in specified activities and is included in
a plan. (See also [g:CMMI:stakeholder].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: representation {CMMI} = The organization, use, and
presentation of a CMM's components. Overall, two types of approaches
to presenting best practices are evident: the staged representation
and the continuous representation [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: required CMMI components {CMMI} = CMMI components that are
essential to achieving process improvement in a given process
area. These components are used in appraisals to determine process
capability.  Specific goals and generic goals are required model
components [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: requirement {CMMI} = (1) A condition or capability needed
by a user to solve a problem or achieve an objective. (2) A condition
or capability that must be met or possessed by a product or product
component to satisfy a contract, standard, specification, or other
formally imposed documents. (3) A documented representation of a
condition or capability as in (1) or (2) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: requirements analysis {CMMI} = The determination of
product-specific performance and functional characteristics based on
analyses of customer needs, expectations, and constraints; operational
concept; projected utilization environments for people, products, and
processes; and measures of effectiveness [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: requirements elicitation {CMMI} = Using systematic
techniques, such as prototypes and structured surveys, to proactively
identify and document customer and end-user needs [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: requirements management {CMMI} = The management of all
requirements received by or generated by the project, including both
technical and nontechnical requirements as well as those requirements
levied on the project by the organization [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: requirements traceability {CMMI} = A discernible
association between requirements and related requirements,
implementations, and verifications. (See also [g:CMMI:bidirectional
traceability] and [g:CMMI:traceability].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: return on investment {CMMI} = The ratio of revenue from
output (product) to production costs, which determines whether an
organization benefits from performing an action to produce something
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: risk analysis {CMMI} = The evaluation, classification, and
prioritization of risks [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: risk identification {CMMI} = An organized, thorough
approach to seek out probable or realistic risks in achieving
objectives [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: risk management {CMMI} = An organized, analytic process to
identify what might cause harm or loss (identify risks); to assess and
quantify the identified risks; and to develop and, if needed,
implement an appropriate approach to prevent or handle causes of risk
that could result in significant harm or loss [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: risk management strategy {CMMI} = An organized, technical
approach to identify what might cause harm or loss (identify risks);
to assess and quantify the identified risks; and to develop and, if
needed, implement an appropriate approach to prevent or handle causes
of risk that could result in significant harm or loss.  Typically,
risk management is performed for project, organization, or product
developing organizational units [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: root cause {CMMI} = A source of a defect such that if it is
removed, the defect is decreased or removed [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# S
######################################################################

glossary:: senior manager {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a
management role at a high enough level in an organization that the
primary focus of the person filling the role is the long-term vitality
of the organization rather than short-term project and contractual
concerns and pressures. A senior manager has authority to direct the
allocation or reallocation of resources in support of organizational
process improvement effectiveness. (See also [g:CMMI:higher level
management].)  A senior manager can be any manager who satisfies this
description, including the head of the organization.  Synonyms for
``senior manager'' include [g:CMMI:executive] and ``top-level
manager.''  However, to ensure consistency and usability, these
synonyms are not used in CMMI models [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: service {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a service is a
product that is intangible and non-storable. (See also
[g:CMMI:product], [g:CMMI:customer], and [g:CMMI:work product].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: shared vision {CMMI} = A common understanding of guiding
principles including mission, objectives, expected behavior, values,
and final outcomes, which are developed and used by a project
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: software engineering {CMMI} = (1) The application of a
systematic, disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development,
operation, and maintenance of software. (2) The study of approaches as
in (1). (See also [g:CMMI:hardware engineering], and [g:CMMI:systems
engineering].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: solicitation {CMMI} = The process of preparing a package to
be used in selecting a supplier (contractor) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: special cause of process variation {CMMI} = A cause of a
defect that is specific to some transient circumstance and not an
inherent part of a process. (See also [g:CMMI:common cause of process
variation].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: specific goal {CMMI} = A required model component that
describes the unique characteristics that must be present to satisfy
the process area. (See also [g:CMMI:capability level], [g:CMMI:generic
goal], [g:CMMI:organization's business objectives], and
[g:CMMI:process area].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: specific practice {CMMI} = An expected model component that
is considered important in achieving the associated specific goal. The
specific practices describe the activities expected to result in
achievement of the specific goals of a process area. (See also
[g:CMMI:process area] and [g:CMMI:specific goal].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: stable process {CMMI} = The state in which all special
causes of process variation have been removed and prevented from
recurring so that only the common causes of process variation of the
process remain. (See also [g:CMMI:capable process], [g:CMMI:common
cause of process variation], [g:CMMI:special cause of process
variation], [g:CMMI:standard process], and [g:CMMI:statistically
managed process].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: staged representation {CMMI} = A model structure wherein
attaining the goals of a set of process areas establishes a maturity
level; each level builds a foundation for subsequent levels. (See also
[g:CMMI:maturity level] and [g:CMMI:process area].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: stakeholder {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a group or
individual that is affected by or is in some way accountable for the
outcome of an undertaking. Stakeholders may include project members,
suppliers, customers, end users, and others. (See also
[g:CMMI:customer] and [g:CMMI:relevant stakeholder].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: standard {CMMI} = When you see the word standard used as a
noun in a CMMI model, it refers to the formal mandatory requirements
developed and used to prescribe consistent approaches to development
(e.g., ISO/IEC standards, IEEE standards, and organizational
standards). Instead of using standard in its common everyday sense, we
use another term that means the same thing (e.g., typical,
traditional, usual, or customary) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: standard process {CMMI} = An operational definition of the
basic process that guides the establishment of a common process in an
organization.  A standard process describes the fundamental process
elements that are expected to be incorporated into any defined
process. It also describes the relationships (e.g., ordering and
interfaces) among these process elements.  (See also [g:CMMI:defined
process].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: statement of work {CMMI} = A description of contracted work
required to complete a project [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: statistical predictability {CMMI} = The performance of a
quantitative process that is controlled using statistical and other
quantitative techniques [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: statistical process control {CMMI} = Statistically based
analysis of a process and measurements of process performance, which
will identify common and special causes of variation in the process
performance and maintain process performance within limits. (See also
[g:CMMI:common cause of process variation], [g:CMMI:special cause of
process variation], and [g:CMMI:statistically managed process].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: statistical techniques {CMMI} = An analytic technique that
employs statistical methods (e.g., statistical process control,
confidence intervals, and prediction intervals) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: statistically managed process {CMMI} = A process that is
managed by a statistically based technique in which processes are
analyzed, special causes of process variation are identified, and
performance is contained within well-defined limits. (See also
[g:CMMI:capable process], [g:CMMI:special cause of process variation],
[g:CMMI:stable process], [g:CMMI:standard process], and
[g:CMMI:statistical process control].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: subpractice {CMMI} = An informative model component that
provides guidance for interpreting and implementing a specific or
generic practice.  Subpractices may be worded as if prescriptive, but
are actually meant only to provide ideas that may be useful for
process improvement [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: subprocess {CMMI} = A process that is part of a larger
process. A subprocess can be decomposed into subprocesses and/or
process elements. (See also [g:CMMI:process], [g:CMMI:process
description], and [g:CMMI:process element].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: supplier {CMMI} = (1) An entity delivering products or
performing services being acquired. (2) An individual, partnership,
company, corporation, association, or other service having an
agreement (contract) with an acquirer for the design, development,
manufacture, maintenance, modification, or supply of items under the
terms of an agreement (contract) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: sustainment {CMMI} = The processes used to ensure that a
product can be utilized operationally by its end users or
customers. Sustainment ensures that maintenance is done such that the
product is in an operable condition whether or not the product is in
use by customers or end users [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: systems engineering {CMMI} = The interdisciplinary approach
governing the total technical and managerial effort required to
transform a set of customer needs, expectations, and constraints into
a product solution and to support that solution throughout the
product's life. (See also [g:CMMI:hardware engineering] and
[g:CMMI:software engineering].)  This includes the definition of
technical performance measures, the integration of engineering
specialties toward the establishment of a product architecture, and
the definition of supporting lifecycle processes that balance cost,
performance, and schedule objectives [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# T
######################################################################

glossary:: tailoring {CMMI} = Tailoring a process makes, alters, or
adapts the process description for a particular end. For example, a
project establishes its defined process by tailoring from the
organization's set of standard processes to meet the objectives,
constraints, and environment of the project [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: tailoring guidelines {CMMI} = Organizational guidelines
that enable projects, groups, and organizational functions to
appropriately adapt standard processes for their use. The
organization's set of standard processes is described at a general
level that may not be directly usable to perform a process.  Tailoring
guidelines aid those who establish the defined processes for
projects. Tailoring guidelines cover (1) selecting a standard process,
(2) selecting an approved lifecycle model, and (3) tailoring the
selected standard process and lifecycle model to fit project
needs. Tailoring guidelines describe what can and cannot be modified
and identify process components that are candidates for modification
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: target profile {CMMI} = In the continuous representation, a
list of process areas and their corresponding capability levels that
represent an objective for process improvement. (See also
[g:CMMI:achievement profile] and [g:CMMI:capability level profile].)
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: target staging {CMMI} = In the continuous representation, a
sequence of target profiles that describes the path of process
improvement to be followed by the organization. (See also
[g:CMMI:achievement profile], [g:CMMI:capability level profile], and
[g:CMMI:target profile].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: technical data package {CMMI} = A collection of items that
can include the following if such information is appropriate to the
type of product and product component (e.g., material and
manufacturing requirements may not be useful for product components
associated with software services or processes): (1) Product
architecture description (2) Allocated requirements (3) Product
component descriptions (4) Product-related lifecycle process
descriptions if not described as separate product components (5) Key
product characteristics (6) Required physical characteristics and
constraints (7) Interface requirements (8) Materials requirements
(bills of material and material characteristics) (9) Fabrication and
manufacturing requirements (for both the original equipment
manufacturer and field support) (10) Verification criteria used to
ensure requirements have been achieved (11) Conditions of use
(environments) and operating/usage scenarios, modes and states for
operations, support, training, manufacturing, disposal, and
verifications throughout the life of the product (12) Rationale for
decisions and characteristics (e.g., requirements, requirement
allocations, and design choices) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: technical requirements {CMMI} = Properties (attributes) of
products or services to be acquired or developed [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: test procedure {CMMI} = Detailed instructions for the
setup, execution, and evaluation of results for a given test
[cite:cmmi]

glossary:: traceability {CMMI} = A discernible association among two
or more logical entities such as requirements, system elements,
verifications, or tasks. (See also [g:CMMI:bidirectional traceability]
and [g:CMMI:requirements traceability].)  [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: trade study {CMMI} = An evaluation of alternatives, based
on criteria and systematic analysis, to select the best alternative
for attaining determined objectives [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: training {CMMI} = Formal and informal learning options,
which may include in-class training, informal mentoring, Web-based
training, guided self-study, and formalized on-the-job training
programs. The learning options selected for each situation are based
on an assessment of the need for training and the performance gap to
be addressed [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: typical work product {CMMI} = An informative model
component that provides sample outputs from a specific practice. These
examples are called typical work products because there are often
other work products that are just as effective but are not listed
[cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# U
######################################################################

glossary:: unit testing {CMMI} = Testing of individual hardware or
software units or groups of related units. (See also
[g:CMMI:acceptance testing].) [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# V
######################################################################

glossary:: validation {CMMI} = Confirmation that the product, as
provided (or as it will be provided), will fulfill its intended
use. In other words, validation ensures that ``you built the right
thing.'' (See also [g:CMMI:verification].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: verification {CMMI} = Confirmation that work products
properly reflect the requirements specified for them. In other words,
verification ensures that ``you built it right.'' (See also
[g:CMMI:validation].) [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: version control {CMMI} = The establishment and maintenance
of baselines and the identification of changes to baselines that make
it possible to return to the previous baseline [cite:cmmi]

######################################################################
# W
######################################################################

glossary:: Work Breakdown Structure {CMMI} = ([acs:CMMI:WBS]) An
arrangement of work elements and their relationship to each other and
to the end product [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: work product {CMMI} = In the CMMI Product Suite, a useful
result of a process. This can include files, documents, products,
parts of a product, services, process descriptions, specifications,
and invoices.  A key distinction between a work product and a product
component is that a work product is not necessarily part of the
product. (See also [g:CMMI:product] and [g:CMMI:product component].)
In CMMI models, you will see the phrase work products and
services. Even though the definition of work product includes
services, this phrase is used to emphasize the inclusion of services
in the discussion [cite:cmmi]

glossary:: work product and task attributes {CMMI} = Characteristics
of products, services, and project tasks used to help in estimating
project work. These characteristics include items such as size,
complexity, weight, form, fit, and function. They are typically used
as one input to deriving other project and resource estimates (e.g.,
effort, cost, and schedule) [cite:cmmi]

<<<RAW
