>>>RAW.sml-structure-summary

>>>COMMENT

$Author: don.johnson $

$Revision: 15125 $

$Date: 2013-07-07 09:24:43 -0600 (Sun, 07 Jul 2013) $

<<<COMMENT

: !!Paragraphs.!! ([ref:paragraphs]) A paragraph is simply a block of
text, not indented, terminated with a blank line.  Paragraphs are
separated by blank lines.

index:: paragraphs

:

  A paragraph is simply a block 
  of text that is not indented.
  Paragraphs are separated by
  blank lines.

---

: !!Sections.!! ([ref:sections]) Sections start with a section heading
indicated by a line that begins with one or more asterisks (`*' - the
way section headings are marked in Emacs' outline mode). A table of
contents is automatically generated for the front matter of the
document.

index:: sections

index:: section headings

:

  * My Section

  ** My Sub-Section

  *** My Sub-Sub-Section

---

: !!Unordered Lists.!! ([ref:lists]) An unordered list item starts
with a dash (`-') in the first column. Unordered lists can be nested
by indenting items in sub-lists.

index:: unordered lists; lists!unordered

:

  - item 1
  - item 2
  - item 3

---

: !!Ordered Lists.!! ([ref:lists]) An ordered list item starts with a
plus sign (`+') in the first column. Ordered lists can be nested by
indenting items in sub-lists.

index:: ordered lists; lists!ordered

:

  + item 1
  + item 2
  + item 3

---

: !!Definition Lists.!! ([ref:lists]) A definition list item starts
with an equal sign (`=') followed by the term being defined, then
another equal sign followed by the definition of the term.

index:: definition lists; lists!definition

:

  = term 1 = definition of term 1...
  = term 2 = definition of term 2...
  = term 3 = definition of term 3...

---

: !!Tables.!! ([ref:tables]) A normal ~~table~~ (i.e. not a
~~baretable~~) Begins with `||>>>TABLE||' and ends with
`||<<<TABLE||'. Tables ~~cannot~~ be nested. Tables can have titles
(captions). A list of tables is automatically generated for the front
matter of the document. Rows are separated by three or more dashes
(`||---||').

index:: tables

:

  >>>TABLE.tab-my-table
  
  title:: My Table

  :: row 1 column 1 (emphasized)
  :: row 1 column 2 (emphasized)
  ---
  : row 2 column 1
  : row 2 column 2
  ---
  : row 3 column 1
  : row 3 column 2

  <<<TABLE

---

: !!Baretables.!! ([ref:tables]) Any line that begins with a colon (:)
is a table cell and any line that begins with a double colon (::) is
an emphasized table cell.  A ~~baretable~~ is a table without a
caption or label.  It starts with table cell that is ~~not~~ inside a
TABLE division. Rows are separated by three or more dashes
(`||---||').

index:: baretables

:

  :: row 1 column 1 (emphasized)
  :: row 1 column 2 (emphasized)
  ---
  : row 2 column 1
  : row 2 column 2
  ---
  : row 3 column 1
  : row 3 column 2
  ---

---

: !!Images.!! ([ref:images]) Insert an image (JPEG, GIF, or PNG) into
a figure or anywhere in the text by pointing to the file containing
the image.

index:: images

:

  image:: my-image.png

  image:: images/my-other-image.gif

---

: !!Figures.!! ([ref:figures]) A figure is a picture, diagram, or
ascii art. Figures can have titles (captions). You can specify a
desired width of a figure (i.e. ||width:: 5in||). A list of figures is
automatically generated for the front matter of the document.

index:: figures

:

  >>>FIGURE.fig-my-figure

  title:: My Figure

  image:: images/my-figure.png

  <<<FIGURE

---

: !!Listings.!! ([ref:listings]) Listings are used for verbatim
listings of text like source code. Optional features are: ~~listing
caption~~, ~~line numbering~~, ~~language dependent syntax
highlighting~~, ~~space character indicators~~, and ~~variable font
size~~. A list of listings is automatically generated for the front
matter of the document.

index:: listings

:

  >>>LISTING.lis-my-listing

  title:: My Listing

  file::  files/my-listing.txt

  <<<LISTING

---

: !!Attachments.!! ([ref:attachments]) You can attach files to a
document just as you would an E-mail.  Attachments appear in your
published documents with a paperclip icon users can click to
``detach'' those files.

index:: attachments

:

  >>>ATTACHMENT.att-my-attachment

  title:: My Attachment

  file::  files/my-attachment.txt

  <<<ATTACHMENT

---

: !!Simple Pre-formatted Text.!! ([ref:preformatted-text]) ~~Simple~~
preformatted text is ~~indented text~~ which is rendered as verbatim
text.  I usually use two spaces to indent pre-formatted text.

index:: preformatted text

:

  simple
  preformatted
  text

---

: !!Fancy Pre-formatted Text.!! ([ref:preformatted-text]) ~~Fancy~~
preformatted text is a block of text that begins with
`||>>>PREFORMATTED||' and ends with `||<<<PREFORMATTED||.'
Pre-formatted text divisions do not need to be indented and will be
rendered as verbatim text.  If you want your pre-formatted text to
have a number, caption, and/or description, then you want a listing
(See [ref:listings]) instead of a pre-formatted text division.

index:: preformatted text

:

  >>>PREFORMATTED

  fancy
    preformatted
      text...

  <<<PREFORMATTED

---

: !!Footnotes.!! ([ref:footnotes]) Footnote ~~markers~~
(i.e. `||{lit:[f]}||') get converted to footnote ~~numbers~~ which
refer to corresponding footnote ~~text~~ (i.e. `||footnote:: ...||').

index:: footnotes

:

  footnote::1: My footnote text...

---

: !!IDs and References.!! ([ref:ids-and-references]) IDs uniquely
identify divisions for referral in other parts of the document or
library.

index:: IDs; references

:

  label:: tab-sample-table

  [ref:tab-sample-table]

---

: !!Hyper-links.!! ([ref:hyperlinks-commands-paths]) Anything that
looks like a URL or email address will be turned into a hyper-link
(i.e. [url:http://www.donjohnson.net/] and drj826@acm.org).

index:: hyperlinks

:

  drj826@acm.org

  http://www.cnn.com/

---

: !!Sources and Citations.!! ([ref:source-referencing]) The
||publish|| program generates BibTeX style bibliographic citations
(i.e. ||{lit:[cite:Goossens94]}||). If citations exist in the document
a bibliography will automatically be inserted near the end of the
document.

index:: sources; citations; bibliography

:

  >>>SOURCE.Goossens94

  source_type:: book

  title:: The LaTeX Companion

  author:: Michel Goossens

  author:: Frank Mittelbach

  author:: Alexander Samarin

  publisher:: Addison-Wesley

  year:: 1994

  <<<SOURCE

---

: !!Steps.!! ([ref:steps]) Sequences of procedural steps (i.e. lines
that begin with `||step::||') will be automatically numbered and
rendered with a check-box in front of them. This feature comes in
handy for exercises, demos, etc.

index:: steps; procedures

:

  step:: Turn off computer

  step:: Put in box

  step:: Send it back

---

: !!Side-bars.!! ([ref:sidebars]) Sidebar text is rendered as a box
against the outer margin. Main text flows around sidebar boxes.

index:: sidebars

:

  >>>SIDEBAR.sid-my-sidebar

  title:: My sidebar

  My sidebar content...

  <<<SIDEBAR

---

: !!Acronym Entries.!! ([ref:acronyms-list]) The presence of acronym
entries result in the generation of an alphabetical list of acronyms
inserted at the end of the document.

index:: acronyms

:

  What does [a:TLA] mean?

  acronym:: TLA = Three Letter Acronym

---

: !!Glossary Entries.!! ([ref:building-a-glossary]) The presence of
glossary entries result in the generation of an alphabetical glossary
inserted at the end of the document.

index:: glossary

:

  I've got [g:ants].

  glossary:: ants = small bugs

---

: !!Index Entries.!! ([ref:building-an-index]) The presence of index
entries result in the generation of an alphabetical index inserted at
the end of the document.

index:: index; gophers

:

  skinny [i:gopher], look!

  index:: gopher

  index:: rodent!gopher

  index::begin: gopher

  block of...
  text about...
  gophers...

  index::end: gopher

######################################################################
# Local Emacs Variables

# Local Variables:
# mode: outline
# mode: fill
# coding: us-ascii
# fill-column: 70
# End:

######################################################################

<<<RAW
